It's time for our next data structure hash tables hash tables or hash maps maps on ordered maps dictionaries
objects there are many ways to call this data structure and different languages have different names
for it and slight variations on the hash tables objects.
For example in javascript are a type of hash table.
The reason I'm starting the course with arrays and objects or hash tables is because these two are the
most common interview questions you're going to use them in any coding question.
Me personally I have yet to be part of an interview that you didn't have to know these.
They are an absolute MUST now.
Luckily for us pretty much every language has a built in hash table just like arrays in Python.
They're called dictionaries javascript as we said are objects.
Java has maps and Ruby has hashes and hash tables are very important all across computer science.
You see them a lot in databases in caches and they're extremely useful.
So what are they.
And also you may be wondering what does the name hash table mean.
Where did this name come from.
Well let's look at an example.
Imagine you're going grocery shopping and you have an object here basket and you want to add grapes
has the property of the basket object.
Again we're using javascript syntax but this should look familiar to you.
So we wanted to set that Baskett dog Grace is going to equal 10000.
We're buying 10000 grapes because you can never have too many grapes.
Now first off thinking about how we would store this with a race to be a little bit more difficult.
Right.
And then re We have a index that's numbered and valley with a hash table or an object.
We get to set a key which is grapes and a value.
So we get to set a key value pair.
So right away we see some benefits in here.
Now a way hash table works is we have the key which is grapes and this key is used as the index of where
to find the value in memory.
Remember with the raise we had the index which was the number but with hash tables we use grapes as
a way to find it in our memory shelf.
This is done this way with something called a hash function.
But for now we'll just assume this is a black box.
We don't know what's going on here.
All that's going to happen is we're going to pass grapes into this black box.
This black box is going to do some magic.
And out of it comes a key into an index where we want to store this value.
So now are 1000 grapes can be stored and this memory address 7 1 1 and technically it actually stores
both grapes the key and the value of 10000.
Here I've just simplified it to 10000 just so it's a little bit cleaner.
But keep in mind that it's going to store both key and value and I'll show you a diagram showing this
later on.
So this black box over here gets to decide where to put the data on our memory in our computers.
But you might be wondering what is this thing and why does he get to decide where to put all this information.
For that I'll see in the next video Babai.